Top 5 Best Scanner App for Smartphones

It’s really bothering and expensive to buy scanners or printers just for scanning you documents. Now you don’t have to spend any money for scanner and also it is portable.You can take it everywhere and use it anytime as you wish. Is it really possible? The answer is off course YES, with just using you smartphone. Smartphone brings revolutionary change in whole technology.
Almost all smartphones in markets are equipped with good camera. You can now scan your documents in high quality as per your need with following scanner apps. Scanning from Smartphone is faster than scanner device using laptop or desktop.

Here are the high rated 5 android scanning apps.
1. Adobe Scan: PDF Scanner with OCR, PDF Creator

Adobe is one of the most renowned company in the world of image creation and manipulation. Adobe also provides free document scanning apps which turns smartphones into powerful portable document scanning devices that can recognize text using OCR.

It provides easy tools to edit and reuse old pdf to insert new documents as well as advanced image technology automatically detects your documents for borders, sharpens scanned content, and recognizes text (OCR).

Adobe Scan can do scan anything and is free to use for anyone. We have to login for the first use in adobe scan to begin scanning. It is one of the best app which is easy reliable and provide best feature in scanning and editing documents from your pdf.

This app is freely available in both ios and android. Straight Download and Enjoy Scanning Your Documents.

Pros:
No need to purchase as well as ad-free.
Easily create PDF files of unlimited documents.
Reliable to add and remove documents at any place in PDF.
Auto edge detection as well as OCR supportive.
Download free in Playstore : Adobe Scan

2. Microsoft Office Lens

Office Lens developed by Microsoft is easy and reliable app for android and ios. Office Lens has 3 modes of scanning i.e. whiteboard, document and business card mode. It can quickly capture an image of whiteboard or documents then trims according to the document size then straightened distorted images and enhance image color perfectly.

The scanned picture or created pdf can be saved to your choice of OneNote, OneDrive, or locally on the device. Business card mode can extract contact information using OCR and save it to address book. It can also convert images into any format word(docx), pdf and ppt easily. Office Lens is Ad free and and is freely available in Playstore and Appstore.

The only limitation of Office Lens is it can only make pdf of 30 documents at a time.

Pros:

Easy and reliable to make PDF files.
Ad-free and no need to purchase.
Can scan whiteboard, documents and business card as well.
Auto edge detection.
Cons:

It can only make PDF files upto 30 documents.

3. Tiny Scanner – PDF Scanner
Tiny Scanner
Tiny Scanner is one of the reliable pdf scanner for both android and ios users. It can scans documents, receipts, photos or anything. This app detects edges of documents automatically and can be managed manually as per the need of user and provides color filter option for captured images.

It can store pdf and captured documents in your own device as well as support for most of the significant cloud storage services.

The free version of this app is ad-supported and some of the features are blocked in free version. There is no limitation in no of documents to make pdf.

Pros:

Can Scan any documents, photos, receipts.
You can scan in color, grayscale, or black and white.
Availability of various filters.
Cons:

Free version is ad-supportive.

4. CamScanner
CamScanner is one of the most popular and most downloaded app from playstore. It scans any type of documents and can be saved in internal storage as well as share with anyone or store in cloud. It provides many feature and modes to scan documents. It had various PDF tools, ImagetoExcel, ID Card scanning. It is easy and reliable one for scanning documents in android without any limitations.

The free version of CamScanner gives Watermark in every scanned documents and some of the features can only be accessed by prime users.

Pros:

Easily adjust the quality of the scan so the text is sharp and crisp.
You can secure documents with a password.
Present various editing tools to edit documents.
Cons:

Expensive to buy prime version as this app has a number of in-app purchases.

5. Clear Scan: Free Document Scanner App,PDF Scanning

Clear Scan is another most popular document scanner apps out there. Making PDF and scanning documents is easier with clear scan and it can be synced with onedrive so that every documents are saved properly. User can also save it in their own devices.

The paid version of Clear Scan is AD-free. Though free version of clear scan contains ad, ad’s are displayed occasionally only in clear Scan.

Pros:

Faster and light weight scanner.
It is cloud supportive and easily synced with google drive.
Cons:

Free version displays ads occasionally.

So, What do you think about these android/ios scanner app? Make sure to comment us your views.
